Add understanding workloads section (#6164)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/user-guide/understanding-workloads/anatomy-of-a-workload.md

---
layout: default
title: Anatomy of a workload
nav_order: 15
grand_parent: User guide
parent: Understanding workloads
---

# Anatomy of a workload

All workloads contain the following files and directories:

- [workload.json](#workloadjson): Contains all of the workload settings.
- [index.json](#indexjson): Contains the document mappings and parameters, as well as index settings
- [files.txt](#filestxt): Contains the data corpora file names.

> - [_test-procedures](#_operations-and-_test-procedures): Most workloads contain only one default test procedure, which is configured in `default.json`.

Author: ```suggestion
- [_test-procedures](#_operations-and-test-procedures): Most workloads contain only one default test procedure, which is configured in `default.json`.
```

> - [_test-procedures](#_operations-and-_test-procedures): Most workloads contain only one default test procedure, which is configured in `default.json`.

Author: Yes, there are underscores that match the header for the section.

> - [_operations](#_operations-and-_test-procedures): Contains all of the operations used in test procedures.

Reviewer: Update this link once reviewers' edits are made.

          "wait_for_status": "green"
        },
        "retry-until-success": true
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "bulk",
        "bulk-size": 5000
      },
      "warmup-time-period": 120,
      "clients": 8
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "name": "query-match-all",
        "operation-type": "search",
        "body": {
          "query": {
            "match_all": {}
          }
        }
      },
      "iterations": 1000,
      "target-throughput": 100
    }
  ]
}
```

A workload usually includes the following elements:

- [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/): Defines the relevant indexes and index templates used for the workload.
- [corpora]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/corpora/): Defines all document corpora used for the workload.
- `schedule`: Defines operations and the order in which the operations run inline. Alternatively, you can use `operations` to group operations and the `test_procedures` parameter to specify the order of operations.
- `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for the workload and how they are parameterized.

> ### Indices

Author: Indices is how it appears in the Benchmark code.

> ### Indices

Reviewer: Should this heading be formatted like the ones that are proper names, such as the operations or parameters? For example, should this heading be `indices` or The `indices` element?

To create an index, specify its `name`. To add definitions to your index, use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the index definitions. For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).

### Corpora

The `corpora` element requires the name of the index containing the document corpus, for example, `movies`, and a list of parameters that define the document corpora. This list includes the following parameters:

> -  `source-file`: The file name that contains the workload's corresponding documents. When using OpenSearch Benchmark locally, documents are contained in a JSON file. When providing a `base_url`, use a compressed file format: `.zip`, `.bz2`, `.gz`, `.tar`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz`, or `.tar.bz2`. The compressed file must have one JSON file containing the name.

Reviewer 2: Can you add ".zst" to this list as well?

> -  `source-file`: The file name that contains the workload's corresponding documents. When using OpenSearch Benchmark locally, documents are contained in a JSON file. When providing a `base_url`, use a compressed file format: `.zip`, `.bz2`, `.gz`, `.tar`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz`, or `.tar.bz2`. The compressed file must have one JSON file containing the name.

Author: ```suggestion
-  `source-file`: The file name that contains the workload's corresponding documents. When using OpenSearch Benchmark locally, documents are contained in a JSON file. When providing a `base_url`, use a compressed file format: `.zip`, `.bz2`, `.zst`, `.gz`, `.tar`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz`, or `.tar.bz2`. The compressed file must have one JSON file containing the name.
```

> -  `document-count`: The number of documents in the `source-file`, which determines which client indexes correlate to which parts of the document corpus. Each N client receives an Nth of the document corpus. When using a source that contains a document with a parent-child relationship, specify the number of parent documents.

Reviewer 2: `Each N client receives an Nth of the document corpus` -> `Each N client is assigned an Nth of the document corpus to ingest into the test cluster`

> -  `document-count`: The number of documents in the `source-file`, which determines which client indexes correlate to which parts of the document corpus. Each N client receives an Nth of the document corpus. When using a source that contains a document with a parent-child relationship, specify the number of parent documents.

Author: ```suggestion
-  `document-count`: The number of documents in the `source-file`, which determines which client indexes correlate to which parts of the document corpus. Each N client is assigned an Nth of the document corpus to ingest into the test cluster. When using a source that contains a document with a parent-child relationship, specify the number of parent documents.
```

- `uncompressed-bytes`: The size, in bytes, of the source file after decompression, indicating how much disk space the decompressed source file needs.
- `compressed-bytes`: The size, in bytes, of the source file before decompression. This can help you assess the amount of time needed for the cluster to ingest documents.

### Operations

> The `operations` element lists the OpenSearch API operations performed by the workload. For example, you can set an operation to `create-index`, an index in the test cluster to which OpenSearch Benchmark can write documents. Operations are usually listed inside of `schedule`.

Reviewer: Should the heading be `operations`?

> The `operations` element lists the OpenSearch API operations performed by the workload. For example, you can set an operation to `create-index`, an index in the test cluster to which OpenSearch Benchmark can write documents. Operations are usually listed inside of the `schedule` element.

Author: ```suggestion
The `operations` element lists the OpenSearch API operations performed by the workload. For example, you can list an operation named `create-index` that creates an index in the benchmark cluster to which OpenSearch Benchmark can write documents. Operations are usually listed inside of the `schedule` element.
```

Author: @natebower: How is this?

Reviewer 3: @Naarcha-AWS That works, thanks!

### Schedule

> The schedule element contains a list of operations that are run according to the order they appear in, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: Should the heading be `schedule`?

> The `schedule` element contains a list of actions and operations that are run by the workload. Operations run according to the order in which they appear in the `schedule`. The following example illustrates a `schedule` with multiple operations, each defined by its `operation-type`:

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can rephrase this to something like:
```
The schedule element contains a list of operations that are run according to the order they appear in. 
```

> The `schedule` element contains a list of actions and operations that are run by the workload. Operations run according to the order in which they appear in the `schedule`. The following example illustrates a `schedule` with multiple operations, each defined by its `operation-type`:

Author: ```suggestion
The schedule element contains a list of operations that are run according to the order they appear in, as shown in the following example:
```

        "request-params": {
          "wait_for_status": "green"
        },
        "retry-until-success": true
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "bulk",
        "bulk-size": 5000
      },
      "warmup-time-period": 120,
      "clients": 8
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "name": "query-match-all",
        "operation-type": "search",
        "body": {
          "query": {
            "match_all": {}
          }
        }
      },
      "iterations": 1000,
      "target-throughput": 100
    }
  ]
}
```

According to this `schedule`, the actions will run in the following order:

1. The `create-index` operation creates an index. The index remains empty until the `bulk` operation adds documents with benchmarked data.
2. The `cluster-health` operation assesses the cluster's health before running the workload. In the JSON example, the workload waits until the cluster's health status is `green`.
   - The `bulk` operation runs the `bulk` API to index `5000` documents simultaneously.
   - Before benchmarking, the workload waits until the specified `warmup-time-period` passes. In the JSON example, the warmup period is `120` seconds.

> 3. The `clients` field defines the number of clients that will run the bulk indexing operation concurrently.

Author: ```suggestion
3. The `clients` field defines the number of clients, in this example, eight, that will run the bulk indexing operation concurrently.
```

> 5. The `clients` field defines the number of clients that will run the remaining actions in the schedule concurrently.

Reviewer 2: Could you update this line to be step 3 and the next line to be step 4?

Reviewer 2: ` will run the remaining actions in the schedule concurrently.` -> ` will run the bulk indexing operation concurrently.`

Reviewer 2: @Naarcha-AWS To clarify point 3, could we rephrase ` will run the remaining actions in the schedule concurrently.` -> ` will run the bulk indexing operation concurrently.`

> 5. The `clients` field defines the number of clients that will run the remaining actions in the schedule concurrently.

Author: ```suggestion
3. The `clients` field defines the number of clients that will run the remaining actions in the schedule concurrently.
```

6. The `search` runs a `match_all` query to match all documents after they have been indexed by the `bulk` API using the 8 clients specified.
   - The `iterations` field indicates the number of times each client runs the `search` operation. The report generated by the benchmark automatically adjusts the percentile numbers based on this number. To generate a precise percentile, the benchmark needs to run at least 1,000 iterations.

>    - Lastly, the `target-throughput` field defines the number of requests per second each client performs, which, when set, can help reduce the latency of the benchmark. For example, a `target-throughput` of 100 requests divided by 8 clients means that each client will issue 12 requests per second.

Reviewer 2: In the last sentence about target-throughput, could you include a sentence that links to the concepts page for the discussion about latency and throughput?

Reviewer 2: @Naarcha-AWS Could we add the link here^ for the concepts page describing latency vs throughput

>    - The `target-throughput` field defines the number of requests per second each client performs. When set, the setting can help reduce benchmark latency. For example, a `target-throughput` of 100 requests divided by 8 clients means that each client will issue 12 requests per second. For more information about how target throughput is defined in OpenSearch Benchmark, see [Throughput and latency](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/user-guide/concepts/#throughput-and-latency).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - The `target-throughput` field defines the number of requests per second that each client performs. When set, the setting can help reduce benchmark latency. For example, a `target-throughput` of 100 requests divided by 8 clients means that each client will issue 12 requests per second. For more information about how target throughput is defined in OpenSearch Benchmark, see [Throughput and latency](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/user-guide/concepts/#throughput-and-latency).
```

## index.json

The index.json file contains all of the data mappings and parameters used to index any documents contained inside the workload, as well as the index settings needed when the `create-index` operations in run during the workload. 

> For example, in the `nyc_taxis` workload, the `settings` array gives you the ability to customize the number of shards, replicas, and tells the index whether to cache queries or requests. All mappings are based off of a single document, usually called in the `files.txt` file, and includes each mapping parameter and its format, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 2: Could we rephrase these two paragraphs to something such as:
```
When OSB creates an index for the workload, it uses the index settings and mappings template found in index.json. Mappings in index.json are based off of the mappings of a single document from the workload's corpus, which can be found in files.txt. For example, the following is the index.json for nyc_taxis workload. Users can customize fields such as number_of_shards, number_of_replicas, query_cache_enabled, and requests_cache_enabled. 
```

> For example, in the `nyc_taxis` workload, the `settings` array gives you the ability to customize the number of shards, replicas, and tells the index whether to cache queries or requests. All mappings are based off of a single document, usually called in the `files.txt` file, and includes each mapping parameter and its format, as shown in the following example:

Author: ```suggestion
When OSB creates an index for the workload, it uses the index settings and mappings template found in the `index.json` file. Mappings in `index.json` are based off of the mappings of a single document from the workload's corpus, which can be found in `files.txt`. For example, the following is the `index.json` for `nyc_taxis` workload. Users can customize fields such as `number_of_shards`, `number_of_replicas`, `query_cache_enabled`, and `requests_cache_enabled`. 
```

> When OpenSearch Bencmark creates an index for the workload, it uses the index settings and mappings template in the `index.json` file. Mappings in the `index.json` file are based on the mappings of a single document from the workload's corpus, which is in the `files.txt` file. The following is an example of the `index.json` file for the `nyc_taxis` workload. You can customize the fields, such as `number_of_shards`, `number_of_replicas`, `query_cache_enabled`, and `requests_cache_enabled`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When OpenSearch Benchmark creates an index for the workload, it uses the index settings and mappings template in the `index.json` file. Mappings in the `index.json` file are based on the mappings of a single document from the workload's corpus, which is stored in the `files.txt` file. The following is an example of the `index.json` file for the `nyc_taxis` workload. You can customize the fields, such as `number_of_shards`, `number_of_replicas`, `query_cache_enabled`, and `requests_cache_enabled`. 
```

        "type": "scaled_float"
      },
      "vendor_id": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "store_and_fwd_flag": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "improvement_surcharge": {
        "scaling_factor": 100,
        "type": "scaled_float"
      },
      "fare_amount": {
        "scaling_factor": 100,
        "type": "scaled_float"
      },
      "ehail_fee": {
        "scaling_factor": 100,
        "type": "scaled_float"
      },
      "cab_color": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "dropoff_location": {
        "type": "geo_point"
      },
      "vendor_name": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "total_amount": {
        "scaling_factor": 100,
        "type": "scaled_float"
      },
      "trip_distance": {%- if trip_distance_mapping is defined %} {{ trip_distance_mapping | tojson }} {%- else %} {
        "scaling_factor": 100,
        "type": "scaled_float"
      }{%- endif %},
      "pickup_location": {
        "type": "geo_point"
      }
    },
    "dynamic": "strict"
  }
}
```

## files.txt

The `files.txt` contains a list of files where the data for the workload is stored, usually in a zipped `.json` file.

## _operations and _test-procedures

> To make the workload more human-readable, operations and test procedures are seperated into two different directors. 

Reviewer 2: "different directors" -> "different directories"

> To make the workload more human-readable, operations and test procedures are seperated into two different directors. 

Author: ```suggestion
To make the workload more human-readable, operations and test procedures are seperated into two different directories. 
```

> To make the workload more human-readable, operations and test procedures are separated into two different directories. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the workload more human-readable, `_operations` and `_test-procedures` are separated into two directories. 
```

Reviewer 3: Agree. Please commit.

> The `operations` directory contains a `default.json` file that lists all of the supported operations the test procedure can use. Some workloads, such as `nyc_taxis`, contain an additional `.json` file which lists feature-specific operations, such as `snapshot` operations. The following example shows a list of operations from the `nyc_taxis` workload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_operations` directory contains a `default.json` file that lists all of the supported operations that the test procedure can use. Some workloads, such as `nyc_taxis`, contain an additional `.json` file that lists feature-specific operations, such as `snapshot` operations. The following JSON example shows a list of operations from the `nyc_taxis` workload:
```

        "size": 0,
        "query": {
          "range": {
            "dropoff_datetime": {
              "gte": "2015-01-01 00:00:00",
              "lt": "2016-01-01 00:00:00"
            }
          }
        },
        "aggs": {
          "dropoffs_over_time": {
            "auto_date_histogram": {
              "field": "dropoff_datetime",
              "buckets": "12"
            },
            "aggs": {
              "total_amount": { "stats": { "field": "total_amount" } },
              "tip_amount": { "stats": { "field": "tip_amount" } },
              "trip_distance": { "stats": { "field": "trip_distance" } }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "desc_sort_tip_amount",
      "operation-type": "search",
      "index": "nyc_taxis",
      "body": {
        "query": {
          "match_all": {}
        },
        "sort" : [
          {"tip_amount" : "desc"}
        ]
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "asc_sort_tip_amount",
      "operation-type": "search",
      "index": "nyc_taxis",
      "body": {
        "query": {
          "match_all": {}
        },
        "sort" : [
          {"tip_amount" : "asc"}
        ]
      }
    }
```

> The `_test-procedures` directory contains a `default.json` file which sets the order of operations performed by the workload. Similar to operations, the `_test-procedures` directory can also contain feature specific test procedures, such as `searchable_snapshots.json` for `nyc_taxis`. The following examples shows the searchable snapshots  test procedures for `nyc_taxis`:

Author: ```suggestion
The `_test-procedures` directory contains a `default.json` file which sets the order of operations performed by the workload. Similar to operations, the `_test-procedures` directory can also contain feature specific test procedures, such as `searchable_snapshots.json` for `nyc_taxis`. The following examples shows the searchable snapshots test procedures for `nyc_taxis`:
```

> The `_test-procedures` directory contains a `default.json` file that sets the order of operations performed by the workload. Similar to the `_operations` directory, the `_test-procedures` directory can also contain feature-specific test procedures, such as `searchable_snapshots.json` for `nyc_taxis`. The following examples shows the searchable snapshots test procedures for `nyc_taxis`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `_test-procedures` directory contains a `default.json` file that sets the order of operations performed by the workload. Similar to the `_operations` directory, the `_test-procedures` directory can also contain feature-specific test procedures, such as `searchable_snapshots.json` for `nyc_taxis`. The following examples show the searchable snapshots test procedures for `nyc_taxis`:
```

> The `_test-procedures` directory contains a `default.json` file which sets the order of operations performed by the workload. Similar to operations, the `_test-procedures` directory can also contain feature specific test procedures, such as `searchable_snapshots.json` for `nyc_taxis`. The following examples shows the searchable snapshots test procedures for `nyc_taxis`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_test-procedures` directory contains a `default.json` file that sets the order of operations performed by the workload. Similar to the `_operations` directory, the `_test-procedures` directory can also contain feature-specific test procedures, such as `searchable_snapshots.json` for `nyc_taxis`. The following examples shows the searchable snapshots test procedures for `nyc_taxis`:
```
